Three states in GIT are Modified, Staged and commited.
Working directory, Staging Area, .git directory -> 
-----------------------------------------------
If we make changes to the files in the working directory, we call the files are in modified state.
If we move the files from working directory to Staging Area, we call the modified files are in  staging area (or) staged.
When we commit the files, the files are moved from Staging area to .git directory (i.e. files are commited in .git). 
Index or Staging area is tracked inside .git directory.


git config --global user.name <user_name>
git config --global user.email <email_address>

(This command above can we rewritten i.e. changed to
another user/email by issuing the same command)

Git stores snapshots of your work (i.e. git staging area).
But how does git know whose work it is storing? from the 
global 'user.name' and 'user.email'.

.git directory - Where the configuration files, git repository
information, snapshots of the folder {in which git init is done}.

git diff - Displays the changes that needs to be staged w.r.to. what is the git. once we
stages the changes. git diff output is clean.
git diff  (working dir vs staging dir)
git diff --staged ( staging vs git)

Add & Commit -
----------------
git init - It converts a folder into working directory. I.e. add a .git directory
and adds additional info inside the directory for tracking.
initializes a empty git repository.

git commit -am "message" -> creates a commit object. commit object points to 
changes or files in case of new files commited. and new hash is generated for
this commit based on the previous version and the changes in .git directory.

Tracked file vs UnTracked file - We can use the .gitignore to specify the 
files in the local working directory to be tracked by git.
Untracked files - The files that are not added to the git staging area never before.
Tracked files - The files that are added to staging/.git directory. 
     - Un modified - Once the files are in the .git directory they are marked unmodified.
     - If you edit file after commiting then those files marked modified, then needed to
     be added to staging and commited to .git directory. I.e. if there any changes in files
     between working, staging and .git directory they are termed as modified files.

git add . --dry-run -> List the files that move to the staging area/Index.

git add file_name -> copy the files from local to Index area (staging area).
- If the file is already a tracked file, then the file in index is overrided with the latest 
changes. This means the index keeps growing [i.e. files in the index keeps growing, there is
no way to remove or make the index empty. Index is a file in side the .git directory]

git commit -m "commit message" -> stores the state of the index in memory [].

git remote -v # Verbose information. # 

git config --global push.default simple # If we add this flag, only the changes in
'master' local branch will be updated to the remote 'master' branch. i.e. if we have
local branches other than master, the we need merge them on to master and push to
remote (or) update this config parameter.

credential.helper # to use user.email and user.name for git push

git push <name> # push to the remote repository alias 'name'. By default,
git will push the 'master' branch in local to 'master' branch in remote. Git
will update the remote 'master' branch to look like your 'local' master branch.

What will happen if we create a local branch and push it remote. How
does git know where to push in the git repository? 
 - git config --global push.default simple 
 - create local branch, make changes and push changes to remote.
 - We see below error - since GIT does not know where to push in remote.
 fatal: The current branch PushConfigTest has no upstream branch.
To push the current branch and set the remote as upstream, use

    git push --set-upstream origin PushConfigTest

Difference between adding a collaborator vs forking the repository # Add details here TODO@vgankidi.

Git supports various other protocols to communicate with the server, like SSH, 
using SSH requires to set up your public and private SSH keys, and upload keys to GitHub.


Git is distributed (why use GitHub or GitLab) - 

